Risk brainstorming (not exactly IEEE format, but it's a prototype)

Risk					Likelyhood			Impact (worst case)			Contingency

Member leaves project:			Low				Severe					Other members take over lost member's work, ensure each 														member has a working competence of all duties.  Recalculate 														WBS and schedule accordingly.

Member Gets Sick (mild)			Medium				Low-Medium				If significant impact, readjust accordingly.  PM can provide 														emergency manpower for the sick person (it's 																	preferred they recover and work competently rather than have 														extra errors under the weather)

Member Gets Sick (severe)		Low-Medium			High					See "member leaves project."  Will re-re calculate things 															once member recovers enough to competently perform his/her 															duties.

Member gets injured (debilitating)	Low				Severe					Assuming the injury prevents competent performance of 																his/her duties, see the compensation for "member leaves 															project."

Member has family emergency		Low				Medium-High				Assuming family emergency forbids work, other members will 														take over duties.  If a significant time is needed for the 														lost member, adjust WBS and schedule accordingly.

Member has to leave town (short time)	Medium				Medium					Try to find a means to work remotely.  Adjust WBS and 														schedule if this proves impossible.

Member has to leave town (long time)	Low				High					Try to find a means to do work remotely.  Recalculate 																according to new schedule.  See "member leaves project" if 															the situation cannot be salvaged.

Member's computer crashes		Medium				Medium-High				Keep files in Github for file sharing

Project Falls Behind Schedule		Medium-High(sadly)		Medium-High				Recalculate WBS, PM will provide emergency manpower to 																whatever areas are highest priority.

Member's internet connection fails	Medium-Hgih			Medium-High				Find a different means of connection, work off line if 																possible (alert other members via text or phone e-mail or 															social network).  If the problem persists, try to find a 															dedicated school workspace with a strong internet 																connection.

Members lack key knowledge		Very High			Medium-High				Adjust schedule estiamtes to assume research is required, 															place that into WBS to indicate a valid task and duty (if 															proof of progress is needed, a mini-report of "what I 																researched" can be written).

Members non-project
-schedule is too heavy			Very High			High					See "project falls behind schedule."

Customer is not available		High				Medium					Make judgments as the team sees fit, leave customer e-mail 														indicating judgments to the customer so they can 														confirm/deny them when time permits.

Report is behind schedule		Medium				High					If possible reallocate manpower to the report (however, the 														physical project still gets priority).  PM will write it if 														necessary.

Testing is behind schedule		Medium-High			Medium-High				Reallocate manpower for testing if possible.  If problem 														persists, reorganize testing plan.

Documentation is behind schedule	Medium-High			Medium-High				Reallocate manpower for documentation if possible.  Try to 														make "prototype documents" to work around for when work-														light periods occur (to use as a base for catching up).

Schedule estimation is significantly
off					High				High					Readjust schedule estimation accordingly.  Possibly readjust 														expecations to core priorities.  Let customer know.

Project requirements are unclear	Very High			High					Ask customer CONCRETE questions to pierce any ambiguity 														"pierce the fluffy" as my contact at Aker called it).

Project diverges from customers
vision					Medium				High					Adjust project accordingly, salvage what we can (even unused 														parts can be good code samples to cannibalize from on 														present or future projects, so no deleting unless we have 														to).

Tasks are too complex (need		High				Medium					Further decompose WBS.  Divide accordingly.  Chances are, it
decompositon)													entails work we are already doing anyway on some level, so 														we just need to more clearly divide it.

Scope Creep				High				Severe					Negotiate very clear system boundaries, make sure core 														priorities are established.  Go out of the way to ask "what 														WON'T this application do in terms of the larger system."

Miscommunication between
customer and team			Very-High			High					Try to maintain clear communication (I know it's a "well 														duh" answer, but still).  Find a means to get concrete 														confirmation that we are talking about the same thing.

Team member gets detained by
TSA					Low				Medium-High				If done beyond legal limits, contact a lawyer.  Otherwise, 														compensate accordingly (and boycott airports -_-...)

-----

(here's the more opportunity kind of risk)

Opportunity				Likelyhood			Impact (best case)		Action taken

Project is ahead of schedule		Medium				Medium				See if a bit more work can be worked in.  If schedule is negotiated 													with client, refactor code or try to get other classwork completed.

Overestimated task time			Medium				Medium				See "project is ahead of schedule."

Report proceeding ahead of schedule	Medium				Medium-High			Reallocate work to the project if feasible.

Potential good idea for the project	Low				Medium				Ensure idea is within the scope of the system, add to the list of
(outside the initial plan)										requirements as a LOW PRIORITY requirement (to minimize adverse 													affects on the schedule).

New technology provides unexpected
assistance				Very low			High				Try to master such technology, add time to do so to the WBS.  													Possibly make a note in the report about it.

